Dear homeroom teacher, I am
Nguyen Minh Tu from Hanoi and I am a
student in the "Thu Hai Duong" class. I
have a question for you:
How can children openly confide in their
parents when they encounter a
problem they can't solve alone
online? There's a significant
difference in mindset
between parents and children.
Parents are often worried, experienced, and
calm when facing such issues, but they can also be
quite strict and even
scold their children out of love and concern.
However, children, who are still
growing up and in their adolescence,
cannot understand
these things and are
at a vulnerable age. They
often listen to
sweet words online but don't trust their
parents. So how can children
and parents understand
each other and avoid being swayed by
seemingly sweet words that are actually
a double-edged sword that can harm them?
I would like to thank you
very much for this
question. I see that
you are aware of the dangers
online, so I believe it's
unlikely you will be drawn into it.
However, this question is for
situations where we
can support our parents when they are from a
different generation, have
different ideas, and especially are overly worried
about their children. Therefore, when we
proactively approach our parents,
we must be open and
honest. And here, I also want to send a
message to all parents: please
support your children.
For example, when you meet someone
online and tell your mother,
she should say, "I agree, I will support you
in this relationship, is that okay?" Support them
secretly,
support them in this relationship. But
trust adults; they have their
tricks, they have their ways of
letting the other person see through.  Is
n't it better this way? That's why we can't distance ourselves from our
parents, because they have an
amazing instinct for protecting their children, except in
cases where parents are overly conservative.
Usually, at
this age, parents aren't very old,
so they still spend a
lot of time online. For example, if
you ask your parents this question directly,
right? If they're there to
support you, you can just say, "I'm
interacting with friends and I
have my own curiosities online. I'm
exploring a lot
and I
want to break free from the confines
of the family. So, when I
go online, I make relationships,
friends, or something like
that. Regarding online phenomena, your father or mother is there to guide you, explain, and help you adapt to this online world in the most mature and effective way possible."  I believe that the
children's words will inspire their parents to accompany them because they are being
honest, saying they are very
curious. If their parents don't accompany
them, they will surely seek companionship from their friends,
and that will put
them at greater risk. Of course, they ca
n't be someone who doesn't want to explore
the world, right? So, if
we speak our minds directly,
we will surely have
trustworthy companions—
our parents. Rest assured, after
this retreat, we will tell
our parents everything we are curious about and everything
we have heard so that they
can accompany us.
[Applause]
[Music]